ENG-234: DB migrations (#169)
autokitteh/autokitteh: migrations/README.md

# Database Migrations

We use [Atlas](http://atlasgo.io/) to generate migrations based on GORM's models.

> 

Reviewer: mention that all migrations must be backward compatible.

> # Migrations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Database Migrations
```

> We use atalsgo (http://atlasgo.io/) to generate migrations based on gorm's models

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use [Atlas](http://atlasgo.io/) to generate migrations based on GORM's models.
```

## How to generate a new migration

> - Update the db models that you need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update the DB models that you need
```

> - Run make generate-migrations, give a meaningful name to the migration (i.e. add-created-at-to-projects)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Run `make generate-migrations`, give a meaningful name to the migration (i.e. `add-created-at-to-projects`)
```

### Resolving conflicts in migrations

> In case there are migrations created on two different branches there would be a conflict which should be resolved

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case there are migrations created on two different branches there would be a conflict which should be resolved.
```

> First branch merging to main would work fine. Second branch would have to rebase from main and run ```atlas migrate rebase <versions>``` from the problematic versions
> . Consule [Atlas Docs](https://atlasgo.io/versioned/apply) for further explanations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first branch merging to `main` should work fine. The second branch will have to rebase from `main` and run `atlas migrate rebase <versions>` from the problematic versions. Consult the [Atlas documentation](https://atlasgo.io/versioned/apply) for further explanations.
```

## Running migrations

> if ```AK_DB__AUTO_MIGRATE=true``` migrations would run automatically first time you start the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if you set `AK_DB__AUTO_MIGRATE=true` then migrations will run automatically on the first time you start the server.
```

> 
> otherwise, starting the server would fail if there are pending migrations and you should run ```ak server migrate``` explicitly to run them
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, starting the server will fail if there are pending migrations, so you should run `ak server migrate` explicitly to run them.
```

## CI Verification

> On each PR where gorm scheme file was changed, a CI job would run to verify the migration files are synced to the gorm model, if the files are synced, job would pass, otherwise, the job fail and the developer has to generate the relevant migrations and add them to the PR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On each PR where the GORM scheme file was changed, a CI job will run to verify the migration files are synced to the GORM model. If the files are synced, the job will pass, otherwise the job will fail and the developer has to generate the relevant migrations and add them to the PR.
```
